D’Angelico Excel EXL-1
The D’Angelico Excel EXL-1 retails at 1,790 USD. It comes with some nice features to ensure you get that old-school jazz vibe spiced up with some modern vibes. The guitar is well-designed offering some player-friendly ergonomics.
With the right settings and an amp, the D’Angelico Excel EXL-1 renders a magisterial tone accompanied with an impeccable level of music detail. In fact, what this guitar lacks for in volume is compensated by domineering cool and mellow vibes.
This guitar has excellent aesthetics and its design mimics the original D’Angelo’s that were crafted by hand. If you're looking for a jazz guitar then you should consider the Excel EXL-1. Even though it might not be as versatile the D’Angelico EX-SS, it will deliver what it is designed for.
Epiphone Broadway   
The current Epiphone Broadways in the market are slightly different from the ones manufactured in the 90s.  The Broadway dates back to the 1930s when Epi Stathopoulo was acoustic archtop guitars to lay soundtracks for swing beats.
The Epiphone Broadway goes for around 800 USD. It is fitted with amazing controls including a three-way pickup selector. The guitar also has full-size humbuckers to ensure you get clean and acoustic melodies without interference.
The reissued Epiphone Broadway features some modern updates. However, it still maintains the design from its predecessors. Its natural finish backed up with the warm classical tones make the Epiphone Broadway worthy of its price tag.
Gibson ES-125
The ES-125 is not just another guitar from the Gibson Guitar Company. Introduced back in 1941, this guitar features a hollow body complemented by the classic Gibson shape and design. It is easy to handle, making it a great fit for newbies and pros alike.
The Gibson ES-125 delivers excellent warm sounds spiced up with a resonant jazz vibe thanks to its hollow body. However, one downside is that the guitar is no longer in production. However, it’s still available on eBay.
If you're a newbie looking to get into jazz guitars you can’t go wrong with the Gibson ES-125. Its price ranges between 900-2600 USD.
Guild Starfire II ST Dynasonic
This guitar featured heavily during the early days of rock n’ roll. Nonetheless, it still does a wonderful job in playing jazz and blues. Its versatility is what makes it a darling to many guitar lovers.
The Starfire II ST features tremolo, spring reverb, and slap-back to add more detail to its sound. If you're looking to play jazz tunes with this then you only need to fine tune the settings a little bit. At 1100 USD you'll get yourself this semi-hollow guitar completed with a thin-line design to give it a retro feel.
PRS SE Hollowbody Standard
Whenever guitars are mentioned, the PRS brands don’t miss on the discussion table. Paul Reed Smith designed guitars for all music genres. The brand was formed sometime in the 80s and manufactured guitars for all kinds of music.
A PRS SE Hollowbody Standard will set you back 1000 USD. However, this guitar is everything you would want as a jazz guitarist. Thanks to its versatility this guitar can be used to play blues and rock music. 
Its quality humbuckers supported by the hollow build deliver resonance, clarity, and melodious vibes for jazz music. You can also get it with some custom finishes, but that will cost you a few extra dollars.
The Yamaha Pacifica 300 Series
The Pacifica 300 Series is classified as a budget solid body guitar. The guitar is perfectly suited for playing both rock and jazz music. The price ranges for different Yamaha Pacifica models. However, if you're on a tight budget the 300 series is a good value for your money and offers quality performance.
This guitar is fitted with a five-position switch and a vintage tremolo for you to juggle between different sounds. It also has three pickups that allow the guitar to recreate resonant sounds commonly found in semi-hollow guitars.
The Fender Telecaster
The Fender Telecaster is common among rock and country music performers. However, it isn’t an uncommon sight to spot a Fender Telecaster being used in a jazz band. This guitar produces a standout warm tone with a custom twang to it that sets it apart from other guitars.
The Fender Telecaster is also known for its durability making it a good choice for traveling musicians. If you're looking to playing jazz music on a solid body, then look no further than the Fender Telecaster. It is highly versatile and available on a budget.
Even though its neck is much thinner compared to most guitars on this list, the Fender Telecaster is still a darling to most guitarists looking to venture into jazz music.
The Fender Jazzmaster
As the name suggests, this guitar was designed a jazz only guitar. However, over time it has made its name and has become a favorite for rock and pop performers. Over the years since it was first released the Jazzmaster has featured various design renovations.
The latest edition of the Jazzmaster comes with a three-way toggle pickup selector. It delivers a singing and zingy tone you would expect from such a guitar. However, even though it brings forth plenty of versatility, most jazz enthusiasts do not recommend it.

Consider Your Budget
Most jazz guitars, especially the hollowbody type will most certainly cost you a lot. You can always opt to avoid buying the customized retro types and go for the cheaper versions. They might not match the custom types, but will most certainly do the job.
If you're a beginner, you can purchase used guitars from sites such as eBay or Reverb. This way you will be able to find yourself a good at fraction of the price of a new. You may use this one for practice before buying a brand new one.
Comfort and Handling
Comfort and handling rely on the guitar’s design. However, in the case of jazz guitars, hollowbody guitars are big compared to other types. Their size often poses handling issues and most people often struggle with them. 
The solid-body guitars are much easier to handle. If you're ready to compromise sound quality over handling then you can opt for the solid-body guitars. They are often great for travelling bands or musicians as they are smaller, lighter, and easier to handle. 
Conclusion
Purchasing a jazz guitar can be a tricky experience, especially if it is your first time. It is always a good idea to carry out plenty of research before spending your cash on a jazz guitar. One thing that will help you cut on your selection choices is the type of music you want to play.
If you're planning to play strictly jazz music, then you shouldn’t look further than hollowbody guitars. They’ll offer you than natural jazz tone full of warmth, depth and the right pinch of resonance.
However, if you're looking for a guitar to play different music genres with a leaning towards jazz, then semi-hollow guitars will do the trick. But you will need to understand how best to adjust your settings when playing jazz music.
